docs/design/ui/header/spec.md, before:

# App Header Specification

This document defines the main application header (top bar) for Family Planner, based on design mockups and brand guidelines.

---

## Overview

The App Header is the primary navigation bar that appears at the top of every screen. It provides brand identity, quick actions, and access to user settings.

### Key Features

- Brand identity with menu trigger
- Weather display (optional)
- Quick "Add Event" action
- Notification center access
- Settings access
- User/family avatar

---

## Anatomy

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  ┌────┐                                                                    │
│  │ 🏠 │ Family Planner    ☀️ 72°F    [ + Add Event ]  ⚙️  🔔  (👨‍👩‍👧)        │
│  └────┘ FAMILY OS                                                          │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
   └─────────────┘           └──────┘  └────────────┘  └──────────────────┘
     Brand Area               Weather    Primary CTA      Action Icons
```

---

## Container

### Dimensions

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Height | 72px (4.5rem) |
| Width | 100% |
| Padding Horizontal | 24px (1.5rem) |
| Padding Vertical | 16px (1rem) |

### Styling

| Property | Light Mode | Dark Mode |
|----------|------------|-----------|
| Background | `#ffffff` | `#253830` |
| Border Bottom | `1px solid #dbe6e1` | `1px solid #2a3831` |
| Shadow | `0 1px 2px rgba(0,0,0,0.05)` | Same |

### Layout

```css
display: flex;
align-items: center;
justify-content: space-between;
```

---

## Brand Area (Left)

The brand area serves as the menu trigger (opens the navigation drawer).

### Structure

```tsx
<button className="brand-trigger">
  <div className="brand-icon">
    <Home />
  </div>
  <div className="brand-text">
    <span className="title">Family Planner</span>
    <span className="tagline">FAMILY OS</span>
  </div>
  <ChevronDown className="dropdown-indicator" />
</button>
```

### Brand Icon

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Size | 48×48px |
| Background | `#13ec92` (Primary) |
| Border Radius | `full` (circle) |
| Border | `3px solid rgba(19, 236, 146, 0.3)` (glow ring) |
| Icon | `Home` (Lucide) |
| Icon Size | 24px |
| Icon Color | `#10221a` (dark on primary) |

### Brand Text

| Element | Property | Value |
|---------|----------|-------|
| **Title** | Font | Lexend |
| | Size | 20px (1.25rem) |
| | Weight | 700 (Bold) |
| | Color | `var(--color-text-primary)` |
| **Tagline** | Font | Lexend |
| | Size | 12px (0.75rem) |
| | Weight | 500 (Medium) |
| | Color | `#13ec92` (Primary) |
| | Letter Spacing | `0.1em` (tracking-wider) |
| | Text Transform | Uppercase |

### Dropdown Indicator

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Icon | `ChevronDown` (Lucide) |
| Size | 16px |
| Color | `var(--color-text-secondary)` |
| Margin Left | 4px |

### Behavior

| State | Effect |
|-------|--------|
| Hover | `opacity: 0.8` |
| Active | Opens navigation menu (Sheet) |
| Transition | `opacity 200ms ease` |

---

## Weather Display (Optional)

Shows current weather conditions when enabled.

### Structure

```tsx
<div className="weather-display">
  <Sun className="weather-icon" />
  <span className="temperature">72°F</span>
</div>
```

### Styling

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Container Padding | 8px 16px |
| Container Border | `1px solid var(--color-border)` |
| Container Border Radius | `full` (pill shape) |
| Gap | 8px |

### Weather Icon

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Size | 20px |
| Color | `#facc15` (yellow-400) for sunny |
| | `#94a3b8` (slate-400) for cloudy |
| | `#60a5fa` (blue-400) for rainy |

### Temperature Text

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Font | Lexend |
| Size | 14px (0.875rem) |
| Weight | 600 (SemiBold) |
| Color | `var(--color-text-primary)` |
| Number Style | `tabular-nums` |

---

## Primary Action Button

The main call-to-action for adding new events.

### Structure

```tsx
<Button className="add-event-btn">
  <Plus />
  Add Event
</Button>
```

### Styling

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Background | `#13ec92` (Primary) |
| Text Color | `#10221a` (dark) |
| Font | Lexend |
| Font Size | 14px (0.875rem) |
| Font Weight | 600 (SemiBold) |
| Padding | 12px 20px |
| Border Radius | 8px (lg) |
| Gap (icon to text) | 8px |
| Icon Size | 18px |
| Min Height | 44px (touch target) |

### States

| State | Effect |
|-------|--------|
| Hover | `background: #0fd683` (Primary Hover) |
| Active | `transform: scale(0.95)` |
| Focus | `outline: 2px solid #13ec92; outline-offset: 2px` |
| Disabled | `opacity: 0.5; cursor: not-allowed` |

### Transition

```css
transition: background-color 200ms ease, transform 150ms ease;
```

---

## Action Icons

Icon buttons for secondary actions.

### Structure

```tsx
<div className="action-icons">
  <Button variant="ghost" size="icon">
    <Settings />
  </Button>
  <Button variant="ghost" size="icon" className="notification-btn">
    <Bell />
    <span className="notification-badge">3</span>
  </Button>
</div>
```

### Icon Button Styling

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Size | 44×44px (touch target) |
| Border Radius | 8px (lg) |
| Background | Transparent |
| Icon Size | 22px |
| Icon Color | `var(--color-text-secondary)` |
| Gap between buttons | 8px |

### Icon Button States

| State | Effect |
|-------|--------|
| Hover | `background: var(--color-surface-hover)` |
| Active | `transform: scale(0.95)` |
| Focus | `outline: 2px solid #13ec92; outline-offset: 2px` |

### Notification Badge

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Position | Absolute, top-right of bell icon |
| Offset | `-4px` from top and right |
| Size | 18px (min-width) |
| Background | `#ef4444` (red-500) |
| Text Color | `#ffffff` |
| Font Size | 10px |
| Font Weight | 700 (Bold) |
| Border Radius | `full` |
| Padding | 2px 5px |
| Border | `2px solid var(--color-surface-elevated)` |

---

## User Avatar

Family or user avatar displayed at the far right.

### Structure

```tsx
<button className="avatar-trigger">
  <img src={avatarUrl} alt={familyName} />
</button>
```

### Styling

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Size | 44×44px |
| Border Radius | `full` (circle) |
| Border | `3px solid #13ec92` (Primary ring) |
| Object Fit | `cover` |

### States

| State | Effect |
|-------|--------|
| Hover | `border-color: #0fd683; transform: scale(1.05)` |
| Active | Opens user/family menu |
| Focus | `outline: 2px solid #13ec92; outline-offset: 2px` |

### Fallback (No Image)

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Background | `#e5e7eb` (gray-200) |
| Icon | `Users` (Lucide) |
| Icon Size | 20px |
| Icon Color | `#6b7280` (gray-500) |

---

## Icons (Lucide)

| Element | Icon Name | Import |
|---------|-----------|--------|
| Brand Logo | `Home` | `lucide-react` |
| Dropdown | `ChevronDown` | `lucide-react` |
| Add Event | `Plus` | `lucide-react` |
| Settings | `Settings` | `lucide-react` |
| Notifications | `Bell` | `lucide-react` |
| Weather Sun | `Sun` | `lucide-react` |
| Weather Cloud | `Cloud` | `lucide-react` |
| Weather Rain | `CloudRain` | `lucide-react` |
| Avatar Fallback | `Users` | `lucide-react` |

---

## Responsive Behavior

### Breakpoints

| Breakpoint | Behavior |
|------------|----------|
| < 640px (mobile) | Hide weather, collapse "Add Event" to icon-only |
| 640px - 1024px | Show all elements, reduced spacing |
| > 1024px | Full layout with comfortable spacing |

### Mobile Variant

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  ┌────┐                                      │
│  │ 🏠 │ Family Planner    [+]  ⚙️  🔔  (👨‍👩‍👧) │
│  └────┘ FAMILY OS                            │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

- Weather display hidden
- "Add Event" becomes icon-only button
- Reduced horizontal padding (16px)

---

## Color Reference

### Primary Brand

| Token | Value | Usage |
|-------|-------|-------|
| Primary | `#13ec92` | CTA button, avatar ring, tagline, focus rings |
| Primary Hover | `#0fd683` | Button hover state |
| Primary Dark | `#10221a` | Text on primary background |

### Surface Colors

| Token | Light | Dark |
|-------|-------|------|
| Surface Elevated | `#ffffff` | `#253830` |
| Surface Hover | `#f0f4f3` | `#2f453b` |

### Text Colors

| Token | Light | Dark |
|-------|-------|------|
| Text Primary | `#111815` | `#ffffff` |
| Text Secondary | `#618979` | `#8baea0` |

### Utility Colors

| Token | Value | Usage |
|-------|-------|-------|
| Notification Badge | `#ef4444` | Unread count badge |
| Weather Sunny | `#facc15` | Sun icon |
| Weather Cloudy | `#94a3b8` | Cloud icon |

---

## Accessibility

### Keyboard Navigation

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Tab` | Move focus between interactive elements |
| `Enter` / `Space` | Activate focused button |
| `Escape` | Close any open menus |

### ARIA Attributes

```tsx
<header role="banner">
  <button
    aria-label="Open navigation menu"
    aria-expanded={isMenuOpen}
    aria-haspopup="dialog"
  >
    {/* Brand area */}
  </button>

  <button aria-label="Add new event">
    <Plus /> Add Event
  </button>

  <button aria-label="Settings">
    <Settings />
  </button>

  <button
    aria-label={`Notifications, ${unreadCount} unread`}
  >
    <Bell />
    <span aria-hidden="true">{unreadCount}</span>
  </button>

  <button aria-label="Family menu">
    <img alt={familyName} />
  </button>
</header>
```

### Screen Reader Considerations

- Notification count announced via aria-label
- Weather conditions described (not just icon)
- All buttons have descriptive labels

### Reduced Motion

```css
@media (prefers-reduced-motion: reduce) {
  .header *,
  .header *::before,
  .header *::after {
    animation-duration: 0.01ms !important;
    transition-duration: 0.01ms !important;
  }
}
```

---

## Implementation Notes

### Dependencies

```tsx
import { Button } from "@/components/ui/button"
import {
  Home,
  ChevronDown,
  Plus,
  Settings,
  Bell,
  Sun,
  Users
} from "lucide-react"
```

### Props Interface

```tsx
interface AppHeaderProps {
  /** Family name to display */
  familyName?: string
  /** Family avatar URL */
  avatarUrl?: string
  /** Show weather widget */
  showWeather?: boolean
  /** Weather data */
  weather?: {
    temperature: number
    unit: "F" | "C"
    condition: "sunny" | "cloudy" | "rainy" | "snowy"
  }
  /** Unread notification count */
  notificationCount?: number
  /** Callback when menu trigger clicked */
  onMenuClick?: () => void
  /** Callback when add event clicked */
  onAddEventClick?: () => void
  /** Callback when settings clicked */
  onSettingsClick?: () => void
  /** Callback when notifications clicked */
  onNotificationsClick?: () => void
  /** Callback when avatar clicked */
  onAvatarClick?: () => void
}
```

### Default Values

```tsx
const defaultProps = {
  familyName: "Family",
  showWeather: false,
  notificationCount: 0,
}
```

---

## Visual Reference

See `header-design-1.png` and `header-design-2.png` for visual mockups.

---

*Last updated: December 2024*

Commit message:

docs(design): add mockup disclaimers to all design specs

docs/design/ui/header/spec.md, after:

# App Header Specification

> **Design Reference Only**
>
> This document contains visual mockups and styling references. For implementation
> requirements, data models, and interaction rules, see the feature specification
> in `docs/features/ui/header.md`.
>
> When implementing, apply the project's brand guidelines and established patterns
> from the codebase. Do not copy mockup code directly.

This document defines the main application header (top bar) for Family Planner, based on design mockups and brand guidelines.

---

## Overview

The App Header is the primary navigation bar that appears at the top of every screen. It provides brand identity, quick actions, and access to user settings.

### Key Features

- Brand identity with menu trigger
- Weather display (optional)
- Quick "Add Event" action
- Notification center access
- Settings access
- User/family avatar

---

## Anatomy

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  ┌────┐                                                                    │
│  │ 🏠 │ Family Planner    ☀️ 72°F    [ + Add Event ]  ⚙️  🔔  (👨‍👩‍👧)        │
│  └────┘ FAMILY OS                                                          │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
   └─────────────┘           └──────┘  └────────────┘  └──────────────────┘
     Brand Area               Weather    Primary CTA      Action Icons
```

---

## Container

### Dimensions

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Height | 72px (4.5rem) |
| Width | 100% |
| Padding Horizontal | 24px (1.5rem) |
| Padding Vertical | 16px (1rem) |

### Styling

| Property | Light Mode | Dark Mode |
|----------|------------|-----------|
| Background | `#ffffff` | `#253830` |
| Border Bottom | `1px solid #dbe6e1` | `1px solid #2a3831` |
| Shadow | `0 1px 2px rgba(0,0,0,0.05)` | Same |

### Layout

```css
display: flex;
align-items: center;
justify-content: space-between;
```

---

## Brand Area (Left)

The brand area serves as the menu trigger (opens the navigation drawer).

### Structure

```tsx
<button className="brand-trigger">
  <div className="brand-icon">
    <Home />
  </div>
  <div className="brand-text">
    <span className="title">Family Planner</span>
    <span className="tagline">FAMILY OS</span>
  </div>
  <ChevronDown className="dropdown-indicator" />
</button>
```

### Brand Icon

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Size | 48×48px |
| Background | `#13ec92` (Primary) |
| Border Radius | `full` (circle) |
| Border | `3px solid rgba(19, 236, 146, 0.3)` (glow ring) |
| Icon | `Home` (Lucide) |
| Icon Size | 24px |
| Icon Color | `#10221a` (dark on primary) |

### Brand Text

| Element | Property | Value |
|---------|----------|-------|
| **Title** | Font | Lexend |
| | Size | 20px (1.25rem) |
| | Weight | 700 (Bold) |
| | Color | `var(--color-text-primary)` |
| **Tagline** | Font | Lexend |
| | Size | 12px (0.75rem) |
| | Weight | 500 (Medium) |
| | Color | `#13ec92` (Primary) |
| | Letter Spacing | `0.1em` (tracking-wider) |
| | Text Transform | Uppercase |

### Dropdown Indicator

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Icon | `ChevronDown` (Lucide) |
| Size | 16px |
| Color | `var(--color-text-secondary)` |
| Margin Left | 4px |

### Behavior

| State | Effect |
|-------|--------|
| Hover | `opacity: 0.8` |
| Active | Opens navigation menu (Sheet) |
| Transition | `opacity 200ms ease` |

---

## Weather Display (Optional)

Shows current weather conditions when enabled.

### Structure

```tsx
<div className="weather-display">
  <Sun className="weather-icon" />
  <span className="temperature">72°F</span>
</div>
```

### Styling

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Container Padding | 8px 16px |
| Container Border | `1px solid var(--color-border)` |
| Container Border Radius | `full` (pill shape) |
| Gap | 8px |

### Weather Icon

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Size | 20px |
| Color | `#facc15` (yellow-400) for sunny |
| | `#94a3b8` (slate-400) for cloudy |
| | `#60a5fa` (blue-400) for rainy |

### Temperature Text

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Font | Lexend |
| Size | 14px (0.875rem) |
| Weight | 600 (SemiBold) |
| Color | `var(--color-text-primary)` |
| Number Style | `tabular-nums` |

---

## Primary Action Button

The main call-to-action for adding new events.

### Structure

```tsx
<Button className="add-event-btn">
  <Plus />
  Add Event
</Button>
```

### Styling

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Background | `#13ec92` (Primary) |
| Text Color | `#10221a` (dark) |
| Font | Lexend |
| Font Size | 14px (0.875rem) |
| Font Weight | 600 (SemiBold) |
| Padding | 12px 20px |
| Border Radius | 8px (lg) |
| Gap (icon to text) | 8px |
| Icon Size | 18px |
| Min Height | 44px (touch target) |

### States

| State | Effect |
|-------|--------|
| Hover | `background: #0fd683` (Primary Hover) |
| Active | `transform: scale(0.95)` |
| Focus | `outline: 2px solid #13ec92; outline-offset: 2px` |
| Disabled | `opacity: 0.5; cursor: not-allowed` |

### Transition

```css
transition: background-color 200ms ease, transform 150ms ease;
```

---

## Action Icons

Icon buttons for secondary actions.

### Structure

```tsx
<div className="action-icons">
  <Button variant="ghost" size="icon">
    <Settings />
  </Button>
  <Button variant="ghost" size="icon" className="notification-btn">
    <Bell />
    <span className="notification-badge">3</span>
  </Button>
</div>
```

### Icon Button Styling

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Size | 44×44px (touch target) |
| Border Radius | 8px (lg) |
| Background | Transparent |
| Icon Size | 22px |
| Icon Color | `var(--color-text-secondary)` |
| Gap between buttons | 8px |

### Icon Button States

| State | Effect |
|-------|--------|
| Hover | `background: var(--color-surface-hover)` |
| Active | `transform: scale(0.95)` |
| Focus | `outline: 2px solid #13ec92; outline-offset: 2px` |

### Notification Badge

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Position | Absolute, top-right of bell icon |
| Offset | `-4px` from top and right |
| Size | 18px (min-width) |
| Background | `#ef4444` (red-500) |
| Text Color | `#ffffff` |
| Font Size | 10px |
| Font Weight | 700 (Bold) |
| Border Radius | `full` |
| Padding | 2px 5px |
| Border | `2px solid var(--color-surface-elevated)` |

---

## User Avatar

Family or user avatar displayed at the far right.

### Structure

```tsx
<button className="avatar-trigger">
  <img src={avatarUrl} alt={familyName} />
</button>
```

### Styling

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Size | 44×44px |
| Border Radius | `full` (circle) |
| Border | `3px solid #13ec92` (Primary ring) |
| Object Fit | `cover` |

### States

| State | Effect |
|-------|--------|
| Hover | `border-color: #0fd683; transform: scale(1.05)` |
| Active | Opens user/family menu |
| Focus | `outline: 2px solid #13ec92; outline-offset: 2px` |

### Fallback (No Image)

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Background | `#e5e7eb` (gray-200) |
| Icon | `Users` (Lucide) |
| Icon Size | 20px |
| Icon Color | `#6b7280` (gray-500) |

---

## Icons (Lucide)

| Element | Icon Name | Import |
|---------|-----------|--------|
| Brand Logo | `Home` | `lucide-react` |
| Dropdown | `ChevronDown` | `lucide-react` |
| Add Event | `Plus` | `lucide-react` |
| Settings | `Settings` | `lucide-react` |
| Notifications | `Bell` | `lucide-react` |
| Weather Sun | `Sun` | `lucide-react` |
| Weather Cloud | `Cloud` | `lucide-react` |
| Weather Rain | `CloudRain` | `lucide-react` |
| Avatar Fallback | `Users` | `lucide-react` |

---

## Responsive Behavior

### Breakpoints

| Breakpoint | Behavior |
|------------|----------|
| < 640px (mobile) | Hide weather, collapse "Add Event" to icon-only |
| 640px - 1024px | Show all elements, reduced spacing |
| > 1024px | Full layout with comfortable spacing |

### Mobile Variant

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  ┌────┐                                      │
│  │ 🏠 │ Family Planner    [+]  ⚙️  🔔  (👨‍👩‍👧) │
│  └────┘ FAMILY OS                            │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

- Weather display hidden
- "Add Event" becomes icon-only button
- Reduced horizontal padding (16px)

---

## Color Reference

### Primary Brand

| Token | Value | Usage |
|-------|-------|-------|
| Primary | `#13ec92` | CTA button, avatar ring, tagline, focus rings |
| Primary Hover | `#0fd683` | Button hover state |
| Primary Dark | `#10221a` | Text on primary background |

### Surface Colors

| Token | Light | Dark |
|-------|-------|------|
| Surface Elevated | `#ffffff` | `#253830` |
| Surface Hover | `#f0f4f3` | `#2f453b` |

### Text Colors

| Token | Light | Dark |
|-------|-------|------|
| Text Primary | `#111815` | `#ffffff` |
| Text Secondary | `#618979` | `#8baea0` |

### Utility Colors

| Token | Value | Usage |
|-------|-------|-------|
| Notification Badge | `#ef4444` | Unread count badge |
| Weather Sunny | `#facc15` | Sun icon |
| Weather Cloudy | `#94a3b8` | Cloud icon |

---

## Accessibility

### Keyboard Navigation

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Tab` | Move focus between interactive elements |
| `Enter` / `Space` | Activate focused button |
| `Escape` | Close any open menus |

### ARIA Attributes

```tsx
<header role="banner">
  <button
    aria-label="Open navigation menu"
    aria-expanded={isMenuOpen}
    aria-haspopup="dialog"
  >
    {/* Brand area */}
  </button>

  <button aria-label="Add new event">
    <Plus /> Add Event
  </button>

  <button aria-label="Settings">
    <Settings />
  </button>

  <button
    aria-label={`Notifications, ${unreadCount} unread`}
  >
    <Bell />
    <span aria-hidden="true">{unreadCount}</span>
  </button>

  <button aria-label="Family menu">
    <img alt={familyName} />
  </button>
</header>
```

### Screen Reader Considerations

- Notification count announced via aria-label
- Weather conditions described (not just icon)
- All buttons have descriptive labels

### Reduced Motion

```css
@media (prefers-reduced-motion: reduce) {
  .header *,
  .header *::before,
  .header *::after {
    animation-duration: 0.01ms !important;
    transition-duration: 0.01ms !important;
  }
}
```

---

## Implementation Notes

### Dependencies

```tsx
import { Button } from "@/components/ui/button"
import {
  Home,
  ChevronDown,
  Plus,
  Settings,
  Bell,
  Sun,
  Users
} from "lucide-react"
```

### Props Interface

```tsx
interface AppHeaderProps {
  /** Family name to display */
  familyName?: string
  /** Family avatar URL */
  avatarUrl?: string
  /** Show weather widget */
  showWeather?: boolean
  /** Weather data */
  weather?: {
    temperature: number
    unit: "F" | "C"
    condition: "sunny" | "cloudy" | "rainy" | "snowy"
  }
  /** Unread notification count */
  notificationCount?: number
  /** Callback when menu trigger clicked */
  onMenuClick?: () => void
  /** Callback when add event clicked */
  onAddEventClick?: () => void
  /** Callback when settings clicked */
  onSettingsClick?: () => void
  /** Callback when notifications clicked */
  onNotificationsClick?: () => void
  /** Callback when avatar clicked */
  onAvatarClick?: () => void
}
```

### Default Values

```tsx
const defaultProps = {
  familyName: "Family",
  showWeather: false,
  notificationCount: 0,
}
```

---

## Visual Reference

See `header-design-1.png` and `header-design-2.png` for visual mockups.

---

*Last updated: December 2024*
